# About BIASlab

At BIASlab we aim to develop **nature-inspired ("natural") artificial intelligence** technology for engineering applications. We illustrate the need for the development of *natural* AI technology by an example. Consider the problem of learning how to ride a bike. We can read lots of books or look at millions of examples, but that will not teach us how to ride a bike. We simply have to go out and ride the bike until we start falling. The brain reacts by making an action, namely it will send motor signals to turn the handlebars. Crucially, this is not a random turn, but rather the brain computes the most interesting trial solution, i.e., the action that leads to the most informative sensory observations in terms of learning a better internal representation of the problem. This process improves the chances that future handlebar turns will keep the bike upright. The real-time aspect is essential. Our actions (handlebar turns) change our (future) sensory inputs, which change our (future) perception of the world, which in turn will change future actions etc. In other words, the real-time situated action-perception loop generates an unpredictable and very specific personalized sensory data set for the problem at hand. The data set that we use to learn how to ride a bike could not have been generated in any other way as it is very specific to the real-time and situated dynamic interactions between a specific agent (a specific body) and its environment. Thus, natural AI learns mostly from *actively selected small data sets* and differs from the type of AI that is concerned with learning from a given big data set, e.g., deep learning.

Please view a short introduction video below for more info.
{{<youtube Th3_0NvThcw>}}